# Derivative-Pricing
In computational finance and risk management, several numerical methods (e.g., finited differences, fourier methods, and Monte Carlo simulation) are commonly used for the valuation of financial derivatives.

The Black-Scholes formula is probably one of the most widely cited and used models in derivative pricing. Numerous variations and extensions of this formula are used to price many kinds of financial derivatives. However, the model is based on several assumptions. It assumes a specific form of movement for the derivative price, namely a Geometric Brownian Motion (GBM). It also assumes a conditional payment at maturity of the option and economic constraints, such as no-arbitrage. Several other derivate pricing models have similarly impractical model assumptions. Finance practitioners are well aware that these assumptions are violated in practice, and prices from these models are further adjusted using practitioner judgement.

Another aspect of the many traditional derivative pricing models is model calibration, which is typically done not by historical asset prices but by means of derivative prices (i.e., by matching the market prices of a heavily traded options to the derivative prices from the mathematical model). In the process of model calibration, thousands of derivative prices need to be determined in order to fit the parameters of the model, increasingly important in fianancial risk management, especially when we deal with real-time risk management (e.g., high frequency trading). However, due to the methodologies are discarded during model calibration of traditional derivative pricing models.

Machine learning can potentially be used to tackle these drawbacks related to impractical model assumptions and inefficient model calibration. Machine learning algorithms have the ability to tacke more nuances with very few theoretical assumptions and can be effectively used for derivative pricing, even in a world with frictions. With the advancements in hardware, we can train machine learning models on high performance CPUs, GPUs and other specialized hardware to achieve a speed increase of several orders of magnitude as compared to the traditional derivative pricing models.

Additionally, market data is plentiful, so it is possible to train a machine learning algorithm to learn the function that is collectively generation derivative prices in the market. Machine learning models can caputre subtle nonlinearities in the data these are no obtainable through other statistical approaches.